Progress Report 2015/2016

READING/WRITING/LITERATURE
Daily reading of text, library, or story books.

Completed crafting several stories and writing letters. 

Daily practice of writing skills, focusing on letters of alphabet and writing words.



MATHEMATICS
Completed core standards in kindergarten math and well beyond (division, multiplication and algebra). Daily practice using various workbooks, manipulatives, Khan Academy and flashcards.



SOCIAL STUDIES/ HISTORY

Field trips taken: Felix Neck, Minuteman Park and visitor’s center, Plimoth Plantation, USS Constitution, Harvard Museum of Natural History/Archeaology and Ethnology, Boston Museum of Science, Discovery Museum, Boston Children’s Museum, Wood’s Hole Coast Guard Station, WHOI, WHOI Museum, Wood’s Hole Aquarium, Boston Aquarium, MFA, MSPCA, public works, retail outlets, artist studios, MIT and Martha’s Vineyard Museum. 

Readings: short historical biographies of Rosa Parks, Gandhi, Founding Fathers and notable Christian figures. 

Discussions of the presidential election process, candidates and their views, party system.



SCIENCE

Topics covered include human body (focus on cells), weather/climate/global warming, geology, engineering, sources of power, earth sciences through outdoor exploration, animals through animal husbandry.



THE ARTS
Learned podcasting program and created full length podcasts, including music and sound engineering. 

Created many arts and crafts, including soap making, sculpture, painting and drawing. 

Daily practice of story telling and character development skills.

Minecraft, Chess and Lego Club member.

DIY club - professional instruction in stop motion filming. Made a short film.

DIY club - designed and created bird feeder.

Learned 3D printing program and designed geometrical sculpture.



PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Regular group play and walking/hiking. 

Soccer and hockey instruction.



Progress Report 2016/2017

READING/WRITING/LITERATURE
Daily reading of text and chapter books.

Completed crafting several stories and writing letters. 

Daily practice of writing skills, focusing on phonics.



MATHEMATICS
Completed core standards in grade one math and well beyond (division, multiplication and algebra to the grade six level). Daily practice using various workbooks.



SOCIAL STUDIES/ HISTORY

Field trips taken: Trustees of The Reservations programming, Cape Poge lighthouse, Menemsha Hills Reservation, Long Point, Harvard Museum of Natural History/Archaeology and Ethnology, Boston Museum of Science, Boston Children’s Museum, WHOI Museum, Wood’s Hole Aquarium, Boston Aquarium, animal shelters, retail outlets, artist studios, crabbing, Patriots game, Bruins game, fossil hunting, mineral mining, archeological digs, craft sale vending, restaurant work, Franklin Zoo, games days, Dan TDM show, co-hosted Chilmark Potluck Jam, Earth Day beach clean up, Wanderbus, Sea glass derby and Katama Farm. 

Readings: short historical biographies of Sally Ride, Jacques Cousteau, Emily Dickinson, Lewis & Clark, Martin Luther King Jr. and notable Christian figures.

Discussions of the presidential election process, candidates and their views, party system.



SCIENCE

Topics covered include human body (focus on cells, as this is an ongoing fascination), weather/climate/global warming, geology, engineering, sources of power, earth sciences through outdoor exploration, animals through animal husbandry.



THE ARTS

Created many arts and crafts, including dough ornaments, invented and made a board game, whittled walking stick, swords, spears, wind socks, sea craft, painting and drawing. 

Daily practice of story telling and character development skills.

Pokemon, Chess and Lego Club member.

Learned laser cutting program and designed signage.



PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Regular group play and walking/hiking. 

Soccer, Cub Scouts, Spartan racing, tennis, orienteering, skiing, golf, archery, swimming and hockey instruction/leagues.



Progress Report 2017/2018

READING/WRITING/LITERATURE
 
Daily reading of text, library, or story books.

Completed crafting several story series.

Daily practice of printing and cursive handwriting skills.

Focused on: phonics, spelling, reading comprehension, writing, research, cultural and social language use.

Practiced foreign languages, French, Japanese and Spanish. 

 

MATHEMATICS

Completed core standards in Grade Two math and well beyond.

Focused on: division, multiplication, algebra, geometry, measurement, data analysis, probability, process, numbers and operations.

Daily practice using various workbooks and manipulatives. Private instruction with MIT graduate on mathematical thinking and logic games.

Attended Crazy 8’s Math Club, Seier math club and Einstein’s Workshop.

Played stock market games and learned about investing strategies. 



   SOCIAL STUDIES/HISTORY

Field trips taken: Harvard Museum of Natural History/Archeaology and Ethnology, MFA, Waterworks Museum and Martha’s Vineyard Museums.

Readings: Historical accounts of the lives of Martin Luther King, Emily Dickinson, Amelia Earhart, Mother Theresa, Nikolai Tesla and ancient cultures (Wampanoag, Egyptian, Mayan, Greek, Chinese).

Studied American and world geography.

Volunteered by singing weekly to the elderly at Windermere; observance of the  challenges of aging.

Discussions of American economics, democracy, The Constitution and political parties.

Western Ethics, principles and their Judeo-Christian foundations.         SCIENCE/TECHNOLOGY/ENGINEERING

Topics covered include human body (focus on immunology, cells and genetics),  weather/climate/environmental concerns, geology, engineering, sources of power, earth sciences through outdoor exploration and animals through animal behavior study.

Field trips and experiences included: Cape Poge seaweed study, Right Whale study and restoring habitats study with the Trustees of Reservations. Visits to The Blue Hills weather observatory, numerous animal shelters, Boston Museum of Science, WHOI Discovery Center, Harvard Natural History Museum, Boston Children’s Museum, MIT Museum, Ecotarium, WHOI Aquarium and N.E. Aquarium. Visits to a wide range of natural habitats. Learned about arrowhead crafting and practiced knapping techniques. Created several arrowheads. Hunting for/identifying lithics and artifacts. Study of Wampanoag culture. Hunting for and identifying fossils. Participated in the ‘Wanderbus’ experience.

Citizen science for Biodiversity Works geotagging snakes.

William taught a class about arrowheads to the Plum Hill kindergarten class.

Volunteered at Vineyard Conservation Society.

Participated in MIT’s study to determine a consensus for the programmed moral choices of driverless cars’ artificial intelligence.

Learned and practiced basic coding.

Learned social media branding and helped to create a following of over two thousand. Helped to create a multi platform marketing strategy for small business selling antique German marbles.



THE ARTS

Cooked entire meals and practiced domestic skills.

Daily practice of story telling and character development skills.

Minecraft, chess, games day and Lego club member.

Wrote film reviews of children’s movies for the MV Film Society.

Attended photography, editing and videography workshops. Practiced these skills extensively.

Visited artist’s workshops.

    

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Regular group skating, play and walking/hiking.

Instruction in the following sports: skiing (progressed from beginner to black diamond level), swimming (level 3), golf, tennis and ‘Little Bruins’ hockey.



Progress Report 2019/2020

READING / WRITING / LITERATURE

Daily reading of text, library, or story books.
Completed crafting several story series.
Daily practice of handwriting skills.
Daily practice of spelling and grammar workbooks.
Daily study and practice of typing.
Completed the 2019 spring MCAS grade 4 English language arts exam (released portion).
Practiced foreign languages, French, Japanese and Spanish.
Participated in book club and wrote book reports.
Practiced forming and writing opinion.

MATHEMATICS

Daily practice using various workbooks and tutorials.
Works with various apps, including completing Beast Academy's grade 5 course.
Daily challenges in applied mathmatics.
Attended weekly sessions of the Cambridge Math Circle.
Competed in the Russian School of Math international contest.
Completed the 2019 spring MCAS grade 4 mathematics exam (released portion).

SOCIAL STUDIES / HISTORY

Hunting for/identifying lithics and artifacts. Study of Wampanoag culture.
Hunting for and identifying fossils. Attended Fossil Day and Archeology Day to chat with experts.
Participated in discussions about American economics, democracy, the Constitution and political parties.
Participated in discussions about world history, geography and various cultures. Participated in discussions about American history, geography and cultures.
Continued study of Western ethics, principles and Judeo-Christian foundations.

SCIENCE / TECHNOLOGY / ENGINEERING

Focused on: Weather/climate/environmental concerns, geology, engineering (hydro), coding, sources of power, earth sciences, geophysics and biology (the human body's systems, microorganisms, bacteria, viruses, cells and our place on the food chain).

Studied 3D software and printing techniques.
Field trips, experiences and study methods:
Gifford animal shelter.
Geocaching.
Makerspace.
Boston Children’s Museum.
N.E. Aquarium.
Visits to a wide range of natural habitats.
Practiced hydro engineering challenge of redirecting a river and creating bridges.
Deep study of animal behavior and husbandry.
Practised goat husbandry and herbalism at Native Earth teaching farm.
Learned more about foraging and the medicinal use of plants.
Attended tech classes at Empow Studio. Designed and coded multi level video game with Gamemaker program.
Began to learn how to code with Java and Python.
Celebrated the winter solstice with homeschool co-op bonfire and book reading.

BUSINESS

Participated in discussions about safety, ethics and personal privacy in our digital presence.
Learned about consumer psychology.
Learned about effective advertising strategies.
Studied modern investment with cryptocurrencies.
Practiced performing the expeditor position at one of our family's restaurants.
Continued learning about fiat currency investment strategies and money management.
Continued creating business based stories about a fictional character named Oscar, a dragon who owns a cookie company. The story weaves in many aspects of business challenges including taxes, employee disputes, customer service tactics, cost analysis, insurance, etc.

THE ARTS

Practised cooking and domestic skills.
Practised entertaining by hosting a party.
Daily practice of story telling and character development skills.
Attended homeschool games days.
Took private piano lessons.
Created many works of art in several genres, such as sketching, sculpting, collage and digital arts.
Attended a formal luncheon and practiced advanced social graces.
Visited artist’s workshops.
Participated in advanced Dungeons and Dragons campaigns.
Participated in Pokemon trading card tournaments and club.
Practiced book making and comic book illustration and storyboarding.
Created stop motion claymation films.
Created a YouTube channel and created content.
Attended Lexington Symphony Orchestra.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Regularly attended homeschool 'park days' and play groups.
Enjoyed sledding and tubing with friends.
Daily walking and hiking.
Continued to progress at Skiing, with more advanced practice of the parallel position.
Swim lessons to level 4 and practice of racing techniques.
Long distance running training and development.
Attended homeschool Crossfit club.
Casual climbing, soccer lessons and frisbee.



Year End Progress Report 2020/2021

READING / WRITING / LITERATURE

Daily reading of text, library, or novels.
Completed crafting several story series.
Daily practice of handwriting skills.
Daily practice of spelling and grammar workbooks.
Completed Saxon Grammar and Writing 5.
Daily study and practice of typing.
Completed the 2019 spring MCAS grade 5 English language arts exam (released portion).
Practiced foreign language - online group French lessons.
Practiced forming and writing opinion via essay. Completed a seven paragraph essay entitled "Why Ham Radio is Not Dead."
Completed reading various books including the Narnia series, The Story of Earnest Shackleton, American History Stories by Mara Pratt and The Great Inventors.

MATHEMATICS 

Daily practice using various workbooks and tutorials.
Completed Saxon Math curriculums 7/6 (grade 6) and 8/7 (grade 7).
Began prealgebra.
Worked with various curriculum, including the Art of Problem Solving's Beast Academy.
Attended the Conjecture Academy online home school math club.
Daily challenges in applied mathmatics.
Competed in the Russian School of Math international contest. Awarded a silver medal.
Completed the 2019 spring MCAS grade 5 mathematics exam (released portion).

SOCIAL STUDIES / HISTORY 

Participated in discussions about American economics, democracy, the Constitution and political parties.
Participated in discussions about world history, geography and various cultures. Participated in discussions about American history, geography and cultures.
Continued study of Western ethics, principles and Judeo-Christian foundations.
Continued study of and search for Wampanoag lithics.
Practice of civics with the 'Wanderbus' program.
Regularily volunteered as a 'bell ringer' for the Salvation Army during the Christmas season.

SCIENCE / TECHNOLOGY / ENGINEERING 

Awarded a Technician's Licence by the FCC to operate ham radio.
Studied extensively about ant colonies.
Practiced GPS based geocaching.
Experienced airline flights to and from Florida. Observed local culture, flora and fauna.
Visits to a wide range of natural habitats.
Planted an edible garden and tended to perennials.
Various crop picking at (300 year old) Nourse Farm.
Continued hydro engineering challenges of redirecting a river and creating bridges.
Intensive study of animal behavior and husbandry.
Practiced goat husbandry, farming and herbalism at Native Earth teaching farm.
Learned more about foraging and the medicinal use of plants.
Survival skill practice of fishing with friends.
Observed the Orionid meteor shower and other notable meteorology events.
Completed several STEAM kit activities provided by the Vineyard Haven library.
Study of trees and plants at Polly Hill.
Coded an entire working PC using Oracle.
Modified programs by altering code and making major custom improvements.
Contined learning to code with online Java and Python classes.
Attended an online 2D animation class.
Attends a daily minecraft campaign with friends.
Attended weekly online Dungeons and Dragons campaign.
Attended Pokemon trading card online tournaments.

BUSINESS 

Participated in discussions about safety, ethics and personal privacy in our digital presence.
Continued learning about consumer psychology and effective advertising strategies.
Involved with the daily practice of entrepreneurship in the family businesses.
Continued study of modern investment with cryptocurrencies.
Continued learning about fiat currency, stock market investment strategies and money management.
Continued creating business based stories about a fictional character named Oscar, a dragon who owns a cookie company. The story weaves in many aspects of business challenges including taxes, employee disputes, customer service tactics, cost analysis, insurance, etc.

THE ARTS 

Practiced cooking and domestic skills.
Daily practice of story telling and character development skills.
Weekly piano lessons.
Created many works of art in several genres, such as sketching, sculpting, collage and digital arts.
Visited artist’s workshops.
Created, edited and produced even more content for YouTube channel.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

Regularly attended homeschool play groups.
Enjoyed sledding and tubing with friends.
Accomplished walking a 10 mile, off road hike on MV.
Daily walking and hiking.
Continued to progress with weekly skiing practice. Field trip to Attitash for an extra challenging experience.
Swimming practice.
Attended group youth golf lessons.
Private lessons in golf swing technique.
Attending youth sailing course.
Long distance running training and development.
Ran a 5K track without stopping.
Attending 'Champs' tennis lessons at Vineyard Family Tennis.
Casual practice of crossfit, climbing, soccer and frisbee.



Progress Report for 2022-2023

LANGUAGE ARTS

Awarded prestigious High Honors (51st performance percentile of grade 12 students) on English test, gaining acceptance into the Johns Hopkins Center for Gifted and Talented Youth advanced language arts programs.
Daily reading of texts, or novels.
Completed crafting several essays and story series.
Attended Outschool ELA, essay, critical thinking, executive function and poetry classes.
Daily study and practice of typing.
Practiced foreign language - online French and Spanish lessons.
Practiced forming and writing opinion via essay. Completed several essays.
Completed reading various books including the Nathan Hale series, The Hobbit, My Brother Sam is Dead and several books from the Warrior series.
Weekly college level debates with Outschool debate club. Regularily victorious.

MATHEMATICS 

Completed the Art of Problem Solving's prealgebra curriculum.
Attended the in person and online AOPS Academy.
Worked with Bridge STEM Learning's private tutor service.
Daily challenges in applied mathmatics.
Awarded prestigious High Honors (98th performance percentile of grade 12 students) on mathematics test, gaining acceptance into the Johns Hopkins Center for Gifted and Talented Youth advanced mathematics programs.
Currently studying geometry (grade 11 equivalency) with the Art of Problem Solving's online academy.
Earned a passing grade on the SAT Khan Academy mathematics practice exams.

SOCIAL STUDIES / HISTORY

Attended Outschool class about logos, philosophy and critical thinking.
Participated in discussions about American economics, democracy, the Constitution and political parties.
Participated in discussions about world history, geography and various cultures. Participated in discussions about American history, geography and cultures.
Continued study of Western ethics, principles and Judeo-Christian foundations.
Attended weekly private history lectures with MIT HSSP tutor Joshua Hoffman.
Attended MIT HSSP summer 2023 classes focusing on the regimes that arose between WW1 and WW2.

SCIENCE / TECHNOLOGY / ENGINEERING 

Team member of the New England SciTech stratoscience club. Designed and launched an experimental LoRa (long range) handmade radio and antenna into the stratosphere to test radio communication from earth to near space (33 km altitude).
Team member of the New England SciTech ham radio crew who made two way contact with the International Space Station. Made direct contact with Astronaut Bob Hines via ham radio, asking personalized questions. This event was televised and performed on the big stage by a select group of licensed ham radio youth at the Big E.
Link to YouTube video of event, Tash appears at time stamp 1:20:57:
https://www.youtube.com/live/hdxnD8uF8t0?feature=share
Programmed and installed a Raspberry Pi into a VPN network.
Created public search engine for accessing legitimate debate warrants.
Created '4D News,' a subscription service whose mission is to contrast major news headlines from the perspectives of USA with those of China, Russia, Sweden, UAE and India.
Gained further proficiency in using the penitration testing operating system, Kali Linux.
Weekly classes in ethical hacking with Coddy School and Russian mentor.
Learned Morse Code.
Studying for COMPTIA security+ exam.
Continued to explore the radio arts, including ham radio programming, testing various antennas and frequencies.
Attends Minecraft campaign groups with friends.
Attended weekly Pokemon trading card online and in person tournaments.
Managed a fantasy football team in a family league.
Awarded placement in the elite and innovative international online Astra Nova school (formerly, exclusively housed in SpaceX and founded by Elon Musk) for the 2022/2023 school year, based on William's analysis of an ethical conundrum. William's electives were as follows:
Asteroid Search Team Astrametica. Tash was successful in identifying unknown asteroids, now submitted to NASA for authentication.
Intro to Python
Eukaryotic Cells
Product Design
Model UN
'XYZ', analyzing the stock market
Playwriting
Performance
Debate

BUSINESS 

Participated in discussions about safety, ethics and personal privacy in our digital presence.
Continued learning about consumer psychology and effective advertising strategies.
Involved with the daily practice of entrepreneurship in the family businesses.
Continued study of modern investment with cryptocurrencies.
Continued learning about fiat currency, stock market investment strategies and money management.
Collaborated on social media marketing strategy and creative designs.
Researched Japanese fish for restaurant menu consultation.

THE ARTS 

Practiced cooking and domestic skills.
Daily practice of story telling and character development skills.
Created many works of art in several genres, such as sketching, sculpting and digital arts.
Created several maps and schematics.
Foraged for wild edibles and used them to create homemade preserves.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION 

Regularly attended homeschool park day and hiking groups.
Practiced cycling 20 mile bike rides.
Daily walking and hiking.
Continued to progress with weekly skiing practice.
Swimming practice.
Practiced golfing.
Completed Intermediate sailing levels 1 and 2 and Mercury clinic youth sailing courses, independently sailing on the Boston harbor.
Attended youth Crossfit classes.
Casual practice of crossfit, swimming, bike riding, climbing, soccer and frisbee.
Designed workouts and practiced high intensity interval training.
Bi-weekly horse riding lessons at 2 different farms. Rode in the Whitestone horse show earning 2 blue ribbons. 

CLUBS AND MISC. EXPERIENCES

Pokemon club.
Dungeons and Dragons club.
Storytelling club.
Nourse Farm fruit picking.
Attended Bruins and Patriots games.
Birding at Horn Pond and Ipswich Bird Sanctuary.
Attended Astra Nova summer school.
Ice skating.
Great Wolf Lodge homeschool outing.
Foraging and wild herbcraft class - made infused syrup and salves.
Homeschool group 10 pin bowling and candlepin bowling.
Chess club.
Attended HamXposition.
CBI kayak adventure.
CBI environmental science class.
Performed Administrative duties for NovaCraft club.
Boston Amatuer Radio Club member.
STARS Amatuer Radio Club member.
Weekly attendance of Leonhard homeschool teen learning group. Activities included:
-welding
-knife making
-structure and development of society lecture
-civics lecture
-visit to live trial at Woburn Superior Court
-law lecture
-economics activities
-engineering activities
-tour of Woburn police department
-tour of Woburn fire department
-visit with Woburn Mayor
-performed a mock trial
-murder mystery Pizza party
-picnic and games at Walden Pond
-engineering challenges
-taught debate to teen group
-Cradles to Crayons volunteering
-pool party
-Escape room challenge 

FEEDBACK FROM TUTORS 

"I am also grateful for the authentic presence that he brought to the classroom this year. He has so much to give, and in turn gives me hope for our world's future, knowing that it will soon be in the hands of people like him."
Genevieve Pollock, ELA Tutor 

"I'm certainly not surprised about Tash's aspiration at MIT; his ability to engineer research parameters during [debate] rounds is more than enough to suggest prodigious talent in the field."
Roger Morton, Outschool Debate Club teacher 

"Tash is thriving, with high quality work and class engagement in my Python Beginner class. He's doing a good job of asking the right questions when he gets stuck and putting thought into the code he writes to make sure he's understanding it. Really happy with how he's doing so far!"
Rolando Lopez, Python tutor 

"Green in Cell Bio! Tash is a great student, lots of great questions and ideas!"
Vera Beilinson, Astra Nova eukaryotic cell class teacher 

"Tash has a GREEN in Debate! A truly terrific student. So many fantastic ideas, strong jokes, and beautiful ideals." Frank Smith, Astra Nova debate teacher
(GREEN: thriving, high-quality work and class engagement) 

"Tash did great in Product Design and received a green."
Dr.Jamie, Astra Nova product design teacher
